Amit Meena
Email: Amitjf111@gmail.com
Linkedin
Mobile:
+91-91663 14168
Experience
• Datalabs corp
Hyderabad, TS
Data Scientist
Sep 2023 - Present
◦Worked on a real-time voice translation application using Twilio, Python, and Google
Translate, enabling seamless person-to-person communication by automatically translating
speech between multiple languages over phone conversations.
◦Developed a SQL-to-visualization application, integrating Langchain, OpenAI, and MySQL,
seamlessly powered by FastAPI for precise query refinement, insightful plot recommendations,
and on-the-fly Plotly code generation.
◦Developed a predictive model for determining optimal insurance policy pricing tailored to
individual customers, integrating various factors such as personal information, medical history,
competitor pricing, and more.
◦Created class-segregated 2D and 3D visualizations, K-means clustering of embedded email
data, and implemented average pooling with loss metrics for model evaluation.
◦Collaborated with the team on data analysis, exploring insights, and contributing to
decision-making processes.
• Analytics vidhya
Remote
Author - Part time
May 2021 - Present
◦Authored several blogs and tutorials, including ”A Comprehensive Guide to Reinforcement
Learning”, ”Differential Equations and Deep Learning”.
◦Became part of the Creator’s Club after writing articles across diverse Data Science domains,
gaining access to review courses by Analytics Vidhya and contributing to the platform’s content
quality.
◦Continuously updated knowledge in Data Science domains by staying current with the industry
trends and advancements, ensuring the delivery of relevant and up-to-date content to readers.
Projects
• Mathematical model for computer virus transmission — IIT Roorkee : Analyzed and
compared the model of virus transmission in the human body to that in a computer/network.
Evaluated and incorporated the mathematical model for antivirus components (SAIR Model).
• Euler Maruyama Method with Parallel Computing — IIT Roorkee : Implemented the
method for protein kinetics and population dynamics, utilizing parallel computing for efficient and
faster computations, leading to improved performance and accuracy in the analysis
Education
• Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee (IIT Roorkee)
Roorkee, UK
Integrated MSc Applied Mathematics
July 2017 - May 2022
Technical Skills
• Programming Languages : Python, SQL, C++
• Software Development and Data Science : Data Structures and Algorithms (DSA), Data
Analytics, Predictive Analytics, Natural language processing (NLP), Deep learning, Unsupervised
and supervised techniques, Statistical analysis, Data Visualization, Pandas, Scikit-learn, PyTorch,
OpenAI, Large Language Models (LLM), Langchain, Streamlit, Azure, Fast API, Twilio API
• Development Tools : Jupyter Notebook, MongoDB, Git, Colab, PyCharm, VS Code, Postman,
MySQL, Tableau
Extra Curriculars
• Member — Football Team, IIT Roorkee
◦Participated in the college football team, competing in Inter-Bhawan Tournaments.

